# CS-305-Software-Security
# Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis Financial is a consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for their customers. The financial plans include savings, retirement, investments, and insurance. Artemis Financial wishes to modernize their operations and use the most current and effective software security. Artemis Financial already has a web interface but wishes to protect their client data and financial information.
# What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
When dealing with open-source libraries and coding, it is easy for others to see in depth how a algorithm or library works, find it's weakness, and exploit it. Applying an OWASP Maven Dependency check can cross reference all dependencies used in your code and if any vulnerabilities exist and if so, how to fix them. Applying the depencency check to find the vulnerabilities helped in keeping the application more secure against DoS (Denial of Service), SQL injections, and so on. Having the ability to code securely will make the client have a more secure application and thus have a stronger trust from their users. If users feel the application is vulnerable to cyber attacks, or worse the client fell victim to a cyber attack, the trust is very difficult to gain back, if at all. 
# What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
What was challenging to me was determining if a CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) was a false positive or part of another CVE. I found that updating a single depencendy, like the Spring Boot Starter Parent, eleminated a multiple amount of CVEs, thus saving time. What wasted time was trying to update a few single CVEs with no success, because the issue stemmed from higher hierarchy.
# How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
Initiating the HTTPS protocol by establishing a self-signed certificate and using encryption like SHA-256 were used to increase layers of security. Using these techniques, along with best practices, will ensure that a secure connection is made between client and user and that information will not only be encrypted during transit, but at rest as well. I will be using the OWASP Maven Dependency check in the future to find CVEs and find the best approches to eliminate them. 
# How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
In order to make certain the code and software application were functional I would make sure the code could build without errors. Once the applications build was successful, I added the most current OWASP Maven Dependency check and re-ran the application. Once I found the CVEs, I picked the high serverity and worked my way down the list. After each attempt I re-ran the application to determine if the CVE was removed, still there, or if it caused a new CVE to occure. 
# What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
Maven was a great introduction, and seems to be a popular amongst other software project management and comprehension tools. Utilizing the Project Object Model (POM) file, Maven can manage a project's build, apply dependency management, and issue reports. This was also my first introduction to Spring Boot as well and was very interesting to see my computer be used as a "server" to test web applications, with the use of self-signed certificates. Creating, exporting, and importing certificates was new and I can tell that this skill will be used in the future. 
# Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
Due to this course, I have a deeper understanding for the need of software security. The fact that it should be implemented at every level and it is apart of each developers job to create secure code is a necessity. From this assignment I would show future employers my ability to utilize Mavens tools by using a dependency check, enforce encryption and the ability to create and execute a self-signed certificate to implement the HTTPS protocol. 
